---
title: Under Tresendar

date: 2018-05-01
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

_As Chronicled by Torrfig Smashbang_

Our party sets out into town from the Stonehill Inn to gather more information on the Redbrands and where they might find them. They did over hear something about a cave in the woods gaurded by redbrands but decided to question a few more sources to confirm. They talk with Edermath, Halia, Auntie Q and Karp of Alderleaf farm.  From their sources they do confirm the Redbrands' main base is under the old Tresendar Manor atop the hill and are shown the access cave with the help of Kronk's cousin Karp. The party enters the cave with hastily made Redbrand disguises. 

As the party enters they hear a voice that seems to be speaking to them individually in their heads. They discover it to be some, one-eyed being that resides in this cave at the bottom of the crevice. The party strikes a deal with this being that it can have whatever meat is left over from their encounters in this cave. 

After this encounter the party carefully explores the base. They listen into multiple doors picking carefully and only opening doors that seem silent. They do end up opening a door into 3 redbrands resting but are able to convince them they are only here for ale. Moving on they find a cache of weapons and red brand cloaks. They swap their cloaks and collect whatever weapons they can and move on. They soon find their way back into the main area with the crevice and make their way back to one of the doors that seemed silent that they hadn't investigated before. After entering they see a slew of potions and alchemy instruments and literature. 

While exploring this room they notice a rat making a run for the door they haven't investigated yet and kill the rat before it manages to make it to the door. After disposing of the rat they hear faint rustling from the unknown door. Hada slowly opens the door to see a wizard slipping into a hidden passage.

The party pursues the wizard soon to be identified as Glassstaff. They pursue the wizard back to the area with the cistern and an provisions. The party managed a few hits on Glassstaff during pursuit and while cornering him in this area but not before he manages to summon help from nearby Redbrands and turn himself invisible. The party manages to fend off the other Redbrands long enough to deliver a finishing blow to Glassstaff leading to the surrender of the present Redbrands.

The party decides to feed Glassstaff's body to the creature after collecting his personal effects. They then decide to turn the surrendered redbrands into authorities after they are led to the holding place of the Woodworker's widow Mirna Dendrar and her children.
