---
title: A Sorrowful Return
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

## DM Notes

It was at this point that we had finished the module: The Lost Mines of Phandelver. I encouraged the players to change their characters however they wished since we started with the Pregenerated ones and now they were level 5.

The Cast as modified:
- Thorrfig Smashbang, Tempest Cleric of Valkur
- Hada Vowblade, Order of the Profane Soul Bloodhunter
- Kronk, Scout Rogue
- Stuu Netherwind, Human Arcane Archer Fighter

## Session Recap

Our party explored the south eastern portion of the mines, and in doing so found a labyrinthian passageway of fragile looking stonework inhabited by an Ooze. The Ooze made life difficult by splitting in half sometimes, and seeping into the cracks in the walls when injured. Kronk incinerated many an Ooze into a bizzare paste with the flaming sword, Shambala.

Fleeing from this slime's maze, the party found where all the Ghouls attacked them from before and explored a small storage room. A mimic was hiding in the storage room, and did a number on Kronk as he tried to open the chest. Stuu finished off the injured mimic with a thunderclap bolt when it tried to hide among some old barrels, sending splinters flying across the tiny room into Hada and Torrfig.

Finally reaching the entrance of the mines again, a somber moment occurred when Tharden's Corpse brought the weight of his situation back to the forefront of Nundro's mind.

Nundro scooped up his dead brother and beseeched the party to return to Phandalin with all haste. 

> I need to be rid of this accursed place.

A storm was brewing overhead when the party left the caves, and after an hour or so it was storming properly. Stuu picked out some motion in the hills above the party through the rain. Creeping forward, the party saw an Orc Raiding group's camp huddled around a fire. 

Deciding to bring the pain down on these Orc, the party prepared to strike. Getting into position alerted the orcs to their presence and the commander started bellowing orders. As one the throng of Orcs charged the party and quickly things looked grim.

Torrfig's channeled the true power of his god Valkur in this moment of need. Harnessing the storm raging around them he smote the orcs to a crisp bolt by bolt. Burned flesh and metallic scent clung to the battlefield as the last orcs were finished off and the echoes of commander's orders died to the raging storm.
