---
title: To Thundertree
date: 2019-07-09
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

The party trekked to Thundertree. On the way out of town, they were ambushed and attacked by a Hobgoblin + Goblin group. The party successfully captured a very disciplined and well armed hobgoblin and slew the rest of the enemies. The hobgoblin had a rough drawing that was recognizable as Torrfig with the words: "25gp for this one" scrawled underneath.

After a lengthy intimidation process the hobgoblin struck a deal whereby the party would let him go, and he in turn would reveal where "Cragmaw" is. He directed them that there was a ravine south east of the ruins of Thundertree in the woods. At the end of this ravine there was a cave, and the cave is actually a secret entrance to a secret castle of Cragmaw. (This location is now marked on the map)

Letting him go in such a way as to give the party time to escape, the party continued towards Thundertree, arriving at the outskirts at nightfall on the second day. Rather than go right into town the party spent an uneventful night in a dilapidated farmhouse.

Moving into town, they came across a sign that read "DANGER. Plant monsters AND zombies. KEEP OUT." Also Stuu let the bomb drop that there were rumors of a dragon in the area. Kronk scoped out the place as quietly as he could and saw signs of a big fuckin thing living in the old tower, with two half-eaten massive spider corpses down below.

The town is remarkably overgrown and it wasn't long before the party was attacked by bushes on the way into town. Dispatching their twig-like foes was simple enough and by sheer luck, Reidoth the druid's reinforced hut was nearby. He ushered them inside quickly.

Reidoth readily provided directions to a castle that matches the description given. His directions and the Hobgoblin's directions do not match. He also told off for being foolish enough to ignore his signs and come to Thundertree anyway.

> There's zombies here covered with ash that poofs out when you hit them. Very difficult to fight like that. Also there's some strange magic stirring the trees to start moving around, and they're all hungry. Pretty sure there's some giant spiders around here, or were at some point, found their webs. There's some wierdos in dark cloaks and robes on the east side of town. And there's a dragon. I'd really like that dragon gone.
