---
title: Drow, Goblinoids, and a Shield Door
date: 2019-10-11
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

Our party did another 180 and bolted back away from the flaming skull. Scrabbling back up from the trench, the commotion continued from the direction of the door and the northern passage. They bolted eastward, to the forge of spells. Torrfig and Stuu wrenched a door off its hinges and secured it to the Immovable Rod after a few tries.

Hada and Kronk heard the sounds of footsteps from the east. Next they heard the sound of a particularly mad flaming skull blasting away at some enemies. Lastly, conversation and more footsteps from the eastern hall.

The Immovable Barricade completed, the party opted to go head-long into the blast-furnace room and take whatever enemies are there head on. Forgoing stealth, Torrfig and Hada took the lead, following the flickering light the party's lanterns down the hall.

Torrfig saw two figures slip southward at their approach, and then two bugbears brought morningstars down on the pair as they entered the room. 

Three bugbears and a Drow made their presence known in the skirmish. The drow bolted southward immediately, and after two of the bugbears dropped, the third ran after him.

Running footsteps reached the party from the southern corridor, and the shadowy figure of a drow slunk through the dim light on the far side of the cave to the door.

Moving in further, the party engaged the Drow, and made the passage over the bellows impassable with the immovable door. The Drow was able to open the door and slip through however as a group of goblinoids appeared in the southern door. On the other side of the door, the party was able to just barely make out a tall robed Drow figure weilding a staff before the door was closed again.

The party turned on the southern goblinoids, dealing massive damage to one of them before a peculiarly accented voice rang out.

> STOP FIGHTING OR THE DWARF DIES

The robed figure from the doorway was holding a wicked looking dagger at none other than Nundro Rockseer's throat. Nundro was haggard looking and frightened, but Torrfig recognized him instantly.

Droop yielded, Stuu feigned to yield but prepared a blind seeking arrow for when he sees an opportunity. The goblinoids moved in closer but did not attack, following their leader's cue.

Torrfig made a decision. He didn't like the odds of talking their way out of this, and he cast Hold Person as subtly as he could in that moment. He also drew heavily on his divine link and attempted to cast Santuary on his cousin, but alas his god was not with him in this moment. The spells both failed to take hold, and the Drow Mage reiterated.

> STOP FIGHTING OR THE DWARF ––

Stuu saw his opening and a bolt struck the Drow's shoulder. Reeling from the pain his knife-hand moved away from Nundro.

The ceasefire broken, all hell broke loose again and the goblinoids resumed their attack.

After a hard fought battle, the goblinoids were slain, Nundro had scurried over to safety with Droop's help, and the Drow Mage was on the run, invisible.

A particularly excellent bolt shot caught the invisible Mage in his leg, which interrupted his concentration, causing the spell to drop. The party gave chase and the mage bolted up the channel northwards.

Disappearing around the corner, the party heard the sharp cry of alarm followed by the wet cracking of bones crushing themselves. The mage, in his haste, tried to climb down the 20ft cliffside and slipped, tumbling to his death.
Gathering around Nundro, the party breathed a collective sigh of relief and looked him over.

> Uhm. Thank you immensely for saving me!

Nundro looked awful. His clothing torn and his figure battered.
