---
title: On to Phandalin

date: 2018-05-01
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---
_As Chronicled by Torrfig Smashbang._

Party makes it out of the cave after killing the Bugbear Klarg, his wolf and his men.

They discover a cache of goods from  Lionshield Coster. 

They meet Sildar Hallwinter outside of the cave as planned and make their way back to Phandalin. On their way they discover Kronk has a sketchy past with this town. After arriving in Phandalin the party delivers their cart of goods to Barthen and receive payment.  While talking with the shopkeeper Torrfig inquires where he might find Darren Edermath to teach the Redbrands a lesson. 

He is told he might be found at the Stonehill Inn or at his Orchard. The party then meets Sildar Hallwinter for a drink at the Stonehill Inn, where Kronk reveals why he must conceal himself in this town. He was previously part of the Redbrands and left them on bad terms. After hearing of a wizard by the name of Glass staff leading the Redbrands, Sildar Hallwinter reveals he is in search of such a wizard and seems worried that he might be involved with the Redbrands. He asks the partys help in taking Glass staff into custody. 

Sildar Halwinter also told the party the Goblins were ordered to waylay him and Gundren. They captured both of them, and shipped Gundren, Gundren's map, and all of Sildar's gear to some castle which is their base of operations. He heard all of this through broken goblin, but he thinks he heard the name "Cragmaw". Sildar very much wants the party to save Gundren, but he's not sure where to look.

Party tasks discussed last. 
1. Get in contact with Edermath
2. Inform Lionshield Coster of lost cache of goods.
3. Take Glassstaff into custody.
