---
title: Mormesk the Wraith and the Forge of Spells
date: 2019-09-20
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---
_As Chronicled by Torrfig Smashbang._

After avoiding bugbears and completing a short rest, our party made their way deeper into the mines. Moving successfully passed the fungi they had encountered previously without disturbing it they came to a large room big enough to fit 2 structures. 

The party after taking a look around attempted to open the doors to the first of the 2 structures in this room. After a brief struggle and much noise they were able to pry the damaged seized doors open. Inside was fairly dusty and undisturbed. Seeing a chest and some other belongings Torffig and Kronk made their way into the room. As they did this the shadows on the wall danced and moved irregularly and before them appeared a shade like figure. 

It was offended by their intrusion and threatened that unless they gave up a magical item in their inventory they would not make it out of this room. 

After being massively annoying turds the party discovered the name of this shade was Mormesk, he was a skilled mage in his previous life and was guarding his collection of items and books (which were his lifes work), the party after trying to trick Mormesk gave up Glass Staff's staff and were allowed to leave the room, not without again being massive buttholes about it. 

The party then made their way to the 2nd of the two structures, which Stuu had briefly taken a look into already, stating there was some floating creature with many eye stalks. Hearing this Torffig attempts to stealthily peek into the room. As he does so one of the creatures eyes meets his and it begins to speak to Torffig in his mind. The creature asks if he is with a tour group and if he has been separated that he must return to the lobby and implied if he did not do so there would be negative consequences.

After the parties many painful attempts to trick the creature they gave up and decided to inspect the large room to the north west. Kronk found a large skull that glowed green and hurled a lightning bolt towards him. The party discussed what to do next after Kronk had taken a second peek at the creature and took a lightning bolt right to the god damn face dealing heavy damage. 

They had decided the best course of action was to have Kronk dress up as a gnome and tour guide to attempt to deceive the creature (Spectator) into allowing the group into the Spell Forge. 

Before they made their way into the room the party listened to the painfully disappointed voice in their heads and decided to ask Mordick (Mormesk) if he could help with the Spectre. Mormesk told them that arch mage Ravioli had summoned that creature to an eternity of guarding the Spell Forge and that the Spectres tend to go insane after so long. Mormesk had tried many things to disarm the creature, to no avail. After scarce information the party gave it another go.

Hada made his way to the door seeing if the creature had remembered him. It in fact did and Hada just about gave up and walked away, until an idea smacked him right in his thick face. He runs back to the door and says “Ravioli says you don’t gotta be here no more” and the Spectre disappeared without a word.

The party made their way into the room collecting various magical items. After which they told Mormesk who was frustrated that something so stupid and simple swayed the Spectator. He allowed the party to take from his collection except one item and then disappeared to the spell forge. The End.
