---
title: The Future of Phandalin
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

## The Story So Far

Phandalin is a small frontier town that exists to provide the explorers and prospectors of the area a place to come back to and sell their finds. Think about it like a town in a western, where prospectors head out into the wilds for a week or two at a time and return to sell their finds, spend their money, etc.

3 Adventurers (and a native who disappeared) and a Lawman arrived two nights ago to this frontier town. They immediately started asking questions about a gang in the area that was hustling all of the businesses in the town. The townspeople were largely afraid of retaliation and hushed you frequently when you mentioned the Redbrands. You eventually found one person, a retired adventurer who was itching to help you lay out the ruffians. You also found another who was willing to fund you if you were able to remove the leader of the gang, and give her all of the corespondence you found within their chamber.

After a night of work and a posse formed of about half the town's adult population by your reckoning, you were able to surgically eliminate the gang leader and force the surrender of the gang itself. You confronted the Mayor, who was exceptionally flustered that you would confront these ruffians and exceptionally afraid of the trouble that your actions would cause his town. He didn't seem to mind the trouble the ruffians were already causing, or at least was too afraid to do anything about it.

With the support of the townsfolk you deposed the Mayor and locked him up with all of the ruffians in the cells beneath the town hall.

That night the innkeeper toasted your success and you celebrated with many of the townsfolk before turning in for the night. In the morning, the townsfolk will gather to figure out how to proceed from this upheaval you have caused.

## The Setup

During the revelry, the talk of the town turned towards electing a new Townmaster. Four names have been put forward:

1. Halia (Miner's Exchange). She's well known to be a shrewd businesswoman who puts her business first. The prospectors and miners of the area + the businesspeople who profit from them are behind her because they think she'll do a good job keeping them making money and keeping their money safe. She wants Phandalin to be a center of commerce and prospecting in the area, and obviously she stands to profit the most from this transformation.

2. Toblen (Innkeeper). He's obviously very well known to the townspeople and a good person. He comes from a larger town to the east with a very functional government, a town guard corps, and a militia system that can call on its citizens in times of need. Sildar has been talking to Toblen a lot and the two get along nicely.

3. Edermath (Retired Adventurer). Keeps to himself mostly but he's known enough to be a fair and good guy. He rallied the townspeople mob last night and wants to formally train more people so they're better at defending themselves in time of need. However he doesn't want this frontier town to change much as far as the law goes. He would rather this stay the wild west where the law is loose and people are free to be whatever they want, so long as they don't hurt other people.

4. Harbin (Old Townmaster). Not everyone agreed with the deposment of him and there's some people who don't see the Redbrands as his fault. They liked how things used to be and want things to return to how they were. No militias, no rules, just people doing their own thing without anyone telling them what to do or how to do it.

Just behind all of this town-centered drama, Gundren Rockseer and his Map are still missing. You were hired to help him deliver supplies, which you've done. But you can't help but wonder about this Cave he and his brothers are supposed to have found, and what riches lie within it.

## Session Recap

_Chronicled by Torrfig Smashbang_

Elected Edermath as the new Townmaster. He has vowed to improve the town and train the citizens to fight in a militia when needed.

Delivered Glass Staffs items to Halia that she requested. She also requested we keep quiet about what is under Tresendor manor. Seems suspicious and she does have plans that she isn't revealing to us. (Keep an eye on that bitch) She also suggested that we look for goblin patrols and capture a goblin to take us to the where abouts of cragmaw castle.

Auntie Q suggested we talk to a Druid in Thundertree about the whereabouts of cragmaw and other points of interest. Also told us to comeback for dinner.

After talking to Auntie Q our party splits for a few hours. Stuu trains Droop, Kronk stays with Auntie Q to help out. Hada goes to the lion coster. Torrfig talks to Sister Garaele about her trip and injury. She reveals it was caused by a banshee and that she intentionally sought it out to ask it a question and reveals to Torrfig that banshees have the answer to many questions and hints to the party seeking it out could benefit both of them.

Party reconvenes, Torrfig reveals info about banshee to party, agree to take on quest when possible. Eat dinner at Auntie Q's and meet with Edermath at requested time.

Edermath wants the party to take care of the Orcs nearby attacking caravans. Party reveals they have more time sensitive matters but will take care of them as soon as possible. Hada reveals to Edermath the creature living under Tresendor. Edermath wants that dealt with as well.
After that meeting our party makes their way to Sister Garaele's to discuss the matter of the banshee and to inquire about the creature under Tresendor.

It is revealed it is a Nothic, a wizard's failed attempt to become a Lich. After learning what it is and the threat it poses to the town, the party decides to dispose of it before making their way to Thundertree. The party accepts Sister Garaele's quest to ask the banshee Agatha near Conyberry a question. They are also told to appeal to the banshees vanity.

> What is the location of a spellbook that belonged to a legendary mage named Bowgentle?

The party then purchases some meat to bait the Nothic out and makes their way to the creature's dwelling. The party deals with the creature relatively quickly but not before taking some heavy hits themselves.

The party finds a healthy stash of coin and gems as well as a magical longsword named Talon (It once belonged to a great knight named Aldith Tresendar, known as the Black Hawk. Sir Aldith died fighting off the orcs that attacked through the hidden caverns below his manor.)
