---
title: Lost Mines Found

date: 2018-05-01
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

_As Chronicled by Stuu Netherwind._

Our humble adventurers, after a hard fought battle, turned their attention to their prisoner. The party waited until the Drow regained consciousness and started their inquiries. Upon awakening the captured creature seemed disorientated and confused, and was very accommodating to the party and its questions. The Drow seemed friendly, and even helpful to some degree. 

Torrfig however, who missed the initial interrogation, was skeptical. He remembered how the Drow blinked in and out, and how everything that was taken off the creature turned into blue goo. Torrfig again brought this to the party's attention and they agreed to try and scare the prisoner to attempt to get more information out of him. 

After debating how to best go about "torturing" this drow, everyone finally agreed that dropping him off a cliff was the most ethical, honest, and effective way to go about this. Hada climbed the nearest cliff and held the drow over the edge. With his arms outstretched the drow then smirked, shapeshifted into Gundren, and fell to the ground dead as a blue humanoid. 

The party, with many questions as to who they were traveling with and what purpose they had, decided the best thing to do was to press on. They turned their attention to the map.

The weary adventures decided a rest was well deserved. They traveled until the light started vanishing behind the tops of the trees then made camp. 

Most of the night was uneventful but on the last watch Kronk saw a strange mysterious light in the distance. He was unsure about this phenomenon so he awoke Torrfig to get his opinion. The two agreed to keep an eye on the eerie light, but not to do anything unless it got dangerously close. The light kept its distance and the party continued on in the morning. After consulting the map the party continued on their way until they reached the cave.

> After this there were some scribbled notes about:
> - entering cave
> - finding boots
> - fighting facehuggers
