---
title: Flight to Phandalin

date: 2018-05-01
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---


On the trek south back to Phandalin, the party encountered several dangers.

No more than an hour out from Cragmaw castle, the entire party heard crashing coming from the underbrush ahead. Kronk, Hada, Torfig, and Gundren shimmied up trees while Stuu and Droop took cover in some underbrush. A hulking owlbear burst through the brush. The party attempted to distract it but it sniffed them out. Acting quickly, the whole party fired as much ordinance as they could at the beast before it climbed up Hada's tree and shredded him, causing him to fall to the ground.

After another salvo, the beast attempted to run, and the party finished it off on its way out.

With the Owlbear dead, and tokens collected, the party resumed their trek southward. Camping for the night, the party had an uneasy night of feeling like they were being watched. In the morning, goblinoid tracks were all around their camp and in the distance they heard a rythmic _duum duum duum_ reverberating through the ground.

The party started a quick march south, trying to reach town before whatever this thing is caught up with them. They caught glimpses of it cresting hills behind them, and Torrfig identified it as an Ogre Howdah, a mobile fortress used by goblinoids.

A tense race south ended with the Party raising the alarm in Phandalin, and the newly formed militia assembling. No ogre appeared and eventually the alert was lowered.

The party spent the night catching up with a few people around town, Torrfig learned about the history of the Fall of Phandelver's Pact. Kronk inspired some watchpeople and visited his family. Stuu reconnected with Mirna. Hada spend the night reveling with the townspeople and Gundren.

Gundren told the party he would like to leave tomorrow morning after the party and he spent some time gathering supplies.
