---
title: Cragmaw's Demise
date: 2019-07-30
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

Our party carefully swung south through the hills and approached the area Reidoth told them about from the South, rather than directly from the West.

After some clever scouting, Kronk quickly found a clearing with the dilapidated ruins of a once seven-towered castle. The castle appeared uninhabited but Droop confirmed (after the party asked him) that this was the place he remembered.

Scouting around the castle revealed two entrances, one west-facing main gate and an east-facing postern gate. Droop told the party of a secret entrance on the North face camouflaged by a tarp.

The Northernmost entrance was the quickest way to get at King Grol, and assuming "Ogre" isn't home, the best way to get in undetected.

Kronk had a flash of inspiration and asked Droop why he was so determined to take and wear Mosk's jeweled Eyepatch. Droop explained that Goblinoids respect whoever is strongest, and though Droop is not strong, he might command some respect if he made it look like he had killed Mosk, who was well known to be a tough bugbear.

With this knowledge, the party formed a plan. Droop would go first and try to convince anyone the party meets to go elsewhere before motioning the party forward when it's safe.

The first part went well enough, Droop succesfully got the Party into the castle ruins without raising an alarm, the second part didn't go so well. Droop attempted to get the King's Hobgoblin Guards to bug off but something went wrong and they didn't buy his story. With their suspicions raised, they were on high alert when the party finally pushed through the doors into the King's chambers.

King Grol showed just how tough he was by knocking a heavy dent into Kronk and Torrfig with the help of his pet wolf. The Hobgoblin Gaurds rushed in from the backlines but were quickly dispatched by Hada's longsword. With a combined effort, the party took down King Grol and Wolf.

Just after the battle, a knock came from the closet on the other side of the chamber. A disheveled and slightly worse for wear Gundren Rockseer burst out of the closet as soon as the party opened it. He seemed agitated and grumpy about his situation (understandably): slamming the closet door behind him in disgust and snatching up his lost map when the party found it under King Grol's mattress. He apologised for his snappy nature.

> I'm sure you've been through a lot to get to me, and I'm very appreciative. But understand me when I say I've been through a lot as well. I'll reward you greatly when we get to Phandalin. I have no desire to hang around and would much appreciate it if you'd be so kind as to escort me to town.

The party wasted no time in fleeing the castle and turned south immediately.
