---
title: Adabra's Mill
date: 2019-12-03
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

The party eventually agreed that the best immediate course of action was to pay the ransom, and attempt to establish some sort of diplomatic channel with Captain Targor Bloodsword.

Before leaving town, Stuu fired off a letter in the Diplomat's Pouch intended for King Korboz of Gnomengarde.

> Greetings King Korboz (from nearest recipient)
>
> We are adventurers currently in Phandalin. I'm looking to reach the gnomes scientists or mages. We will be visiting you soon in our travels. To whoever is reading, you will be rewarded if you aid this letter reaching its destination. Please respond asap.
> 
> Adventurers in Phandalin.

They loaded up the Carriage and headed north with Sildar. As the track to Phandalin met the Triboar Trail a well guarded merchant caravan was seen. The party pulled up alongside it and traveled with Milton the Textile Merchant for the rest of the day, swapping news about Phandalin and Neverwinter. Milton said he was headed to Triboar, and then Yartar beyond.

At the end of the day, they joined the merchant's camp and made conversation with the Guards and Employees. Stuu discovered that several of the merchant's retinue have worked for similar people as he has worked for in Neverwinter. Kronk and Hada enjoyed a conversation that turned deep when the topic of Wishes came up.

In the morning, Milton's crew bade the party farewell and headed east inland on the Triboar Trail. The party split off from the trail and headed to the Herbalist's home, arriving before mid-day. Three Manticores were attacking the Herbalist's home when they arrived. 

After ditching the cart and sneaking up closer to the Manticores, the party formed a defensive circle around Thorrfig, who put up a Spirit Guardians spell. The first Manticore that saw the party dove for them and was incinerated/pincushioned by bolts and arrows as he approached. The second two saw his downfall and stayed away, using wicked tail spines at range to harass the party. When the second manticore fell, the third flew away northward into the forest.

Going inside, the party found the Herbalist clinging to life, a wicked spine protruding from her shoulder. Thorrfig stabilized and healed her.
