---
title: Cleaning up after the Redbrands


tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

_As Chronicled by Torrfig Smashbang_

Our party departs from the Rebrands hideout out through Tresendor Manor with previous hostages and redbrand captives. They make their way to the townmasters house to turn them in. The townmaster is upset by this sight but our party forces their way into the hall and intimidates the townmaster into submitting. He along with the 5 red brand captives are locked up in the townmasters halls cells. 

Our party then meets Sildar and a few towns folk outside the townmasters hall informing him of current events. He supports the townmaster being locked up and is ready to storm the redbrand fort with townfolk and edermath. The party and the mob go to the sleeping giant to find any remaining red brands, but find none. The silver tongued devil, Torrfig Smashbang was able to woo the bar wench into letting our party know when the rebrand patrons left after seeing the parade. 

Our party makes their way to the redbrand fort with the mob. half the mob guarded the cave while the other half went to tresendor. Our party makes their way into the fort while the citizens wait outside. Our party forces 5 more redbrands to surrender and defeats 3 bug bears and befriend a dopey goblin named Droop. The party feeds the bug bears to the one eyed creature, who Stuu tries to befriend for god knows what reason. Our party then makes their way out through the cave to find 2 more barely conscious red brands in custody. 

Our party makes their way back to town and lock up the remaining redbrands and make their way to the Stonehill Inn for some drinks and celebration in their honor. They recieve information on where to find the goblin stronghold where gundren likely is.
