---
title: Acid and Boulders
description: Telran the Black and his minion kobolds attacked the party. The fight was won and the party pressed depper into the caves, encountering a rolling boulder trap.
date: 2020-05-04
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

Telran the Black's head reared up from the shrine made to honor him. His neck glowed a deep green as he drew in his breath for a breath attack. Kobolds poured into the room from the door and a hole in the southern side.

After a pregnant pause in which the party dealt with the kobolds in the room, Telran loosed his Acid Breath, catching Nundro out in the open. Thankfully Nundro was able to avoid most of the damage. Immediately Telran sunk back into the fountain, disappearing into its depths.

The kobolds pressed the attack on the injured party. A sorcerer flung spells and the kobold cheiftan inspired his scrappy allies to fight heroically to the end. Thorrfig and Nundro focused on hampering the enemies while Stuu and Rovu dealt killing blows left and right. Craven first contained the flow of enemies with the immovable rod, and then helped dispatch the diminutive foes.

One the fight was over, the party decided to push forward into the caves revealed by the tunnel on the southern half of the room. Not more than 30ft into the cave, a dreaded _CLICK_ was followed by a low rumble. Rovu looked behind him and realized that the wall had given way to a large 10ft sphere of stone, which was beginning to roll towards the party.

Craven looked ahead and realized the nefarity of this hallway. Littered with mobility traps like bear traps, caltrops, and pitfalls, it was going to be a hard thing to traverse at speed. Rovu threw a web down a pit, hoping to use it to either slow the boulder or suspend himself within. Stuu frosted the boulder, slowing it momentarily. Thorrfig used a gust of wind to blast any caltrops and loose rubble further down the tunnel. In a flash of inspiration, Craven grabbed his trusty rope and cast Rope Trick.

As the last of the party members shimmied up the rope, the boulder came crashing down the hallway. They watched in satisfaction as the boulder passed harmlessly below their extradimensional hideout and then they settled in for a quick rest.

Climbing out of the hole, the party saw that the rolling boulder had collapsed part of the tunnel in front of them. Thorrfig's mason's eyes examined the area and a hidden door jumped out at him from the wall next to the collapse. On the other side was a small kobold-sized workshop filled with alchemical tools and substances.