---
title: Battle for the Circle of Thunder


tags:
  - battle
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

We took a detour into a one-shot involving the Goblinoid Forces of Cragmaw attacking the Druidic forces of the Circle of Thunder.

This was a Warfare style combat encounter where every round we'll be rolling for how the battle at large is going while you guys attempt to take down their leader and thus send their troops into disarray.

On your side, Targor Bloodsword has rallied a large troupe of Goblins into a frenzy with promises of revenge for the slaying of their spiritual guide Lhupo the Red-axe. A smaller force of Hobgoblins and worg riders has been sent with this rabble as well as four Troll Axewielders.

Your task according to Captain Targor Bloodsword is:
> Raze the druid circle. Hack down their ancient trees. Throw down their standing stones. Trample the hill into the dirt. Kill the Druid. Burn their grove to the ground.

On their side, an army of plants have been animated to defend the druid circle. A small contingent of wood elf archers stands with Pacan, as do a mish-mash of forest creatures (a makeshift cavalry).

### Quick Recap of the Battle

Our forces engaged the druid's and the battle at large was quite evenly matched. The party skirted around the main conflict and charged the Druid in the heart of his grove. Lightning danced around the circle of stones atop the hill and Pacan the Lightning Caller lived up to his name.

Grasping Vines, Thick Mists, Animated Trees, and Gusts of Wind were summoned by the Earthmother's favored to protect the grove but our party surged through the defenses and attacked the druid. After a difficult climb to the top, the druid was slain in a quick melee.

With the druid gone, the Earthmother's forces crumbled quickly, survivors disbanding into the woods with haste. Cragmaw nation reigned victorious, and the Circle of Thunder was razed to the ground.