---
title: Cragmaw Conference and Return to Phandalin

date: 2018-05-01
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

Entering Cragmaw Castle, the party was escorted through the obvious signs of construction and renovation to Targor's office. Targor greeted them as unexpected guests and dismissed his advisor.

Alone, the party reported to Targor that they had encountered a group of hostile druids and a lot of goblin bodies, one of which was certainly Lhupo the Red-Axe, within south-western Cragmaw Territory.

Targor understood. He said "This is a great tragedy for Cragmaw nation. Its people looked to Lhupo for leadership and we must avenge his falling." He asked for more details about the Druid forces, and then sent the Heroes of Phandalin on a tour of the renovation efforts while he talked with Rovu privately.

The wizard Rovarg asked the party if they had any magical scrolls or spellbooks they would be willing to sell. Ended up buying the Spell Scroll of Augury for 125gp. He told them he would be assigned to the new Phagmaw outpost and if they ever want to part ways with such things he would be happy to buy them.

The party spent the rest of the day interacting with the martial Cragmaw residents around the castle, relaxing a little after all the travel and excitement they had been subjected to. Stuu learned of a creature that the beast warden of Cragmaw had some great respect for when he asked about how well a worg would pull a carriage. The mighty Aurochs which are often found in the wild areas of the world. Legend has it that even Giant-kin used to ride these into battle. If he could tame some of those, they'd make a damn fine carriage driver.

In the night, the party was awoken by five Iron Shadow hobgoblins. They were led into the woods away from the castle and asked to recount the final moments of the fallen Shadow who helped save Gundren from the orc attack. Thorrfig and Hada recounted his bravery in the face of awful odds. The Shadows thanked them as they passed around a burning liquor. At the end of Thorrfig's words, one of the Shadows lit the pyre their fallen comrade was on. As the fire flared up suddenly the shadows were gone, leaving the party alone in the circle of light to find their way back to camp.

The next three days were spent traveling back to Phandalin and they were largely uneventful.

Stuu remembered the broken Iron Flask that he had found in the Black Spider's things and curiosity overcame his sense of caution. After checking with the party, he popped open the brass stopper. The cold black iron grew unbearably cold and fell from his hand. A darkness radiated from the tear in the flask and after a moment, the space around it rippled. Flashing into existence from who knows where, a horrifying creature of chalky-white eyes and flailing tentacles attacked the party. In spite of its opening salvo of beams, the party was rested and whaled into the thing. Before its body could be examined, the space around it rippled in the same way as when it appeared and suddenly it was gone. The Iron Flask on the ground beneath where its body had lain. Stuu re-stoppered the flask.

On the final approach to Phandalin, the party saw a gathering of brightly colored tents and carts on the north-eastern side of town. Hastening into the Inn, the party was greeted by Toblen Stonehill, and a large portion of the townspeople.

Arlidan the Bard's Traveling Troubadors had made a stop in the town and intended to be here for a day or two on their way towards Waterdeep coming from the Yatar Conglomerate. Arlidan was a jovial Elf who greeted the Party and asked that they share their stories with him that he might make a song about the Heroes of Phandalin. 

A night of revelry ensued before everyone turned in, excited to attend the carnival festivities tomorrow.

During the travel, Stuu fired off a message to King Korboz again.

> Dear King Korboz of Gnomengarde,
> 
> We'll be coming to you soon. We look forward to discussing matters in person.
>
> The Heroes of Phandalin

The reply arrived as the party returned to Phandalin

> Greetings Heroes of Phandalin,
> 
> Excellent! Thank you for understanding our position in this matter. We also look forward to meeting with you.
> 
> Sincerely
> 
> King Korboz of Gnomengarde
>
> ### Received on the 29th of Leaffall. Scrawled on the back of the envelope:
> Your current tab with the Wizards of Longsaddle is 12gp, if payment is not received by the 15th of Uktar we will be sending a courier homunculus to collect your balance and will add 10gp per day of its travel as a service fee.