---
title: Arlidan's Traveling Troubadors
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

Our Party spent the day enjoying the festivities of Arlidan's Traveling Troubadors. Some highlights:
- Dice were thrown and money was won and lost.
- The Goliath Strongman Loroghan Tribevigor Munakukate's Wench Press Challenge was nearly bested by Hada, but the final lift prooved too much for him.
- The Gnomish Esteemed Inventor Deppeg sold his Gemwork Crossbow to Stuu after being impressed with the speed and comfort he used it in the arcane archery challenge. He made Stuu promise to talk it up to Master Inventor Vrizz when the party gets to Gnomengarde.
- Stuu bested Jedar the Tortle Dragonchess Master.
- The Goliath Strongman happily took the money of everyone who wanted to arm wrestle him.
- Much food and drink was enjoyed. In particular Hada bought an unopened cask of his family's own wine and proceeded to share it with the festival goers.
- The guest acts were enjoyed: The Four Halfling Duelists in Two Trenchcoats, Tabaxi Clever Water's Exotic Animals, Drow Argent Flyers' Flying Trapeze act.
- Madam Eva read the Fortunes for each of the party.
- At the end of the After-Party, Thorrfig and Rovu heard Arlidan the Bard recount the heroic tale of the Vonidod vs Gedrerth the Gold. The Vonidod was an Adamantine construct of giant proportions used during the Thousand Year War between Giants and Dragons. Its pilot, a Fire Giant named Fedthos, was finally defeated in a Phyrric Victory by Gedrerth in a battle that lasted a week and a day. Their end was so violent it split the earth and created the Dessarin Crags south of Yatar.

At the end of the night, after the after-party, the party retired to their suite upstairs. Stuu and Hada were already asleep, but as Thorrfig and Rovu retired they noticed a dark figure rifling through the party's belongings.

A quick spell and rope tie later, they had restrained the figure and seen it was a male Drow, possibly one of the three from the Argent Flyers. Once the spell wore off, the figure escaped Rovu's grasp and, with his hands still tied, dropped a Darkness spell on the room escaping out the window. The party gave chase, using Daylight to dispell the Darkness and jumping out the window after the figure. A vaugely humanoid figure glowing with dim light between two houses north of the Inn drew in the party like moths, and after a moment, disappeared. The Drow was nowhere to be seen. Returning to their room, they found no items missing, but did find a small coin-sized lump of coal that none of them remember seeing before.

## Madam Eva's Card Readings

### Rovu, Loyal Hobgoblin of Cragmaw

First Card, A situation you will find yourself in: 

1. **The Theif.** A loss of property, beauty, innocence, friendship, or perhaps reputation.

Second, A card from the High Deck which defies the format.

2. **The Seer.** Representing Keen Intellect and Inspiration. A future event whose outcome will hinge on a clever mind.

Third, the outcome of this situation, should you not take heed.

3. **The Traitor.** Betrayal by one close or trusted. Perhaps a weakening of faith or resolve.

> An event will transpire where something you hold dear may be lost to you. Someone you thought trustworthy will prove themselves not. If you are clever you can avoid this.


-----------------
### Hada, Displaced Lordling

First a card to represent a situation or problem that faces you:

1. **The Hooded One.** Representing Bigotry, Intolerance, Xenophobia. Often a mysterious presence or newcomer.

Second a card to reflect the past that led to this situation:

2. **The Wizard.** Mystery, Riddles, the Unknown. Representing one who craves magical power and great knowledge.

Third, a glimpse of a reflected future for this situation, perhaps advice, perhaps a warning.

3. **The Diviner.** Represents a pursuit of knowledge tempered by wisdom. Honesty and Truth, as opposed to lies and half-truths.


> An ideological entity threatens something you hold dear. A past event involving magical power has shaped this threat. Seek one whose intellect is tempered by wisdom.

-----------------
### Thorrfig, The Wandering Mercenary

First, a Card to represent a situation you find yourself mixed up in.

1. **The Trader.** Represents Commerce, above and below the board. Smuggling, Black Markets, Fair Trades.

Second advice on how to approach your situation:

2. **The Guild Member.** Like-minded Individuals who join together for a common goal. Those who take pride in their work.

Third, a warning of the future of your endeavor.

3. **The Conjurer.** Heralds the coming of an unexpected supernatural threat. Often represents those who think themselves as gods.

> Like minded individuals will make the flow of gold easier, but be on the lookout for an unexpected enemy, one whose arrogance will give them away.

--------------
### Stuu, A Destined Hero

First, a card to represent a situation you will be a part of:

1. **The Trader.**  Represents Commerce, above and below the board. Smuggling, Black Markets, Fair Trades.

Second, a reflection of history leading up to this moment.

2. **The Monk.** Representing Self-reliance and inner strength. Serenity. Confidence without Arrogance.

Third, a card from the High Deck which defies the format.

3. **The Darklord.** One single powerful individual whose ambitions have enormous and far-reaching consequences.

> A desire for self-reliance will lead to commerce. But beware the presence of one whose ambitions are far-reaching.