---
title: Lhupo the Red-Axe
date: 2020-02-11
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

The party moved up the hill, intending to interrogate the lone goblin acolyte at the top of the hill for more information. Rovu and Droop approached, and immediately Droop realized who the acolyte was.

> **Jig? Is that you? What are you doing here?**
>
> _Droop! Lhupo said if I do a good enough job with the runes, he'll let me hold the axe!_
>
> **Lhupo? You're with Lhupo now? What happened to you?**
>
> _I touched the Axe Droop. I liked the touch of the Axe, I should hold it. Lhupo said I could if I finish the runes good. The Axe wants me to hold it, I know it does, I could feel it._

Something was frantic about Jig's mannerisms, she seemed obsessed with completing her task. But she did offer enough information for the party to infer that Lhupo was in the North-west cave of the hill. Droop urged them not to kill her, and instead the party tied her up and deposited her in the underbrush, unconscious and out of sight.

Moving forward, Rovu and a Disguised Droop managed to convince the Worg Sentry to run southwards and the party slipped into the cave. Goblins were dispatched and bodies were hidden before Lhupo himself was discovered.

Before the party could get a lock down on him, he and an acolyte scurried out a back tunnel that led up into the hillside. The acolyte put up a good fight to buy him some time, and Lhupo managed to scurry up and out the hatch while his acolyte died.

After trying to slow down the party a few times with ineffective spells, Lhupo made a break for the Altar. The party followed him out into the gales and Thorrfig, Cleric of Valkur--northlanders' god of storms, called the name of the lightning.

In a booming voice, magically enhanced, Lhupo called for aid and goblins came running from all directions. Things were looking grim on top of this hill in the raging wind.

Lightning crashed down among the Henges, arrows flew, bolts of necrotic energy zipped through the air and swords clanged as the goblins battled for their Shaman, Lhupo the Red-axe. The Lightning of Valkur struck this ancient Druidic Altar and awoke some old magics long dormant. The henge stones buzzed to life and a ring of lightning enveloped the altar. 

Seeing that his life was spent, Lhupo jumped on top of the altar and cried out to Maglubiyet for aid. Bringing his own greataxe down on his flesh, he perished in a pool of gathering blood before Hada's eyes. In an instant, the blood stopped pooling, and instead began to swirl in a sphere around the lifeless corpse of the goblin shaman.

A nearby acolyte began a chant of reverence and Hada probed the sphere with the magical longsword Talon. The blood parted easily, revealing the body of Lhupo being approached by an entity through the blood. A whipsered question to Tibalt the Shatterer told Hada that what he feared was true. A moment later, the blood bubble burst, showering the ring in vile liquid.

A Likho, a demon possessed goblin, rose from the altar, greataxe swinging easily from its side. It locked eyes on the party and leapt. Lightning flashed and crackled, the blood-axe swung through the air, and ammunition of various varieties whistled through the wind. After a tense fight wherein Thorrfig used the Wand of Magic missiles to deal the killing blow, the Likho and surrounding goblins lay dead among the ancient druidic henge.

We left our party standing atop this sacred hill drenched in unholy blood deep in the Cragmaw Goblin controlled portion of Neverwinter Wood. A storm is worsening around them, the sun is setting, and an unknown number of goblin reinforcements converging on their location.
