---
title: Something Rotten in the Kobold Dungeon
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

After the fight, our party marvelled the destruction wrought by such tiny hands. Frustrated with the kobolds that managed to escape, they decided to forge onward, deeper into the tomb.

On the other side of the intricate door, a stairway leading downwards met them. As Craven moved forward to scout ahead, he heard the dreaded _CLICK_ and dove forward. Grease coated the steps and he slipped, rolling down the 15 or so feet to the bottom. _CLICK_ again and he only just caught himself from slipping down a pit trap filled with an ominous liquid.

Thorfig jumped down the stairs and reached for Craven's arms. As he did so, a Kobold popped out of the wall above craven and attempted to shove him down the hole. With Thorfig's help, Craven was not moved, and the kobold retreated into the wall.

Stuu, Rovu, and Nundro secured a rope to the wall with a piton at the top of the steps and climbed down the stairs carefully, leaping over the pit at the bottom.

They were greeted with another ominous hallway. In the light of Stuu's Driftglobe, the party saw that it was almost definitely trapped in a few places. Craven drew his sword and tested the space in front of him best he could as he walked around the apparently weak spots in the floor. _CLICK_ He dove prone and avoided a blade at waist height.

Ahead, he found what was almost definitely a 10x10 trapdoor as the hallway curved. Jumping across it, the hallway revealed a branch moving eastward and several doors.

With the party split by the pit, an opportunistic kobold dug their way out behind the party and released a skunk. Rovu blasted the Kobold to smitherines and killed the skunk, but not until after it had sprayed Nundro with its foul payload.

As the party made their way down the hallway ahead and tried the doors, they had an constant uneasy feeling of being watched. The doors opened up into a small room that looked relatively in tact, all things considered. Most of the carvings on the wall were in tact, and the floors and ceiling looked pretty stable. Additionally the doors were barr-able.

Returning to the hallway and moving towards the double doors at the end, Craven tripped a snare trap but avoided being grabbed by it. It made a lot of noise having been tripped, and the party heard the telltale rumble of kobolds tunneling up from underground.

A scrappy claustrophobic fight broke out as kobolds appeared from all over and quickly closed ranks on the party. A sorcerer kobold slung spells, and a few more heavily armored kobolds laid into the party while their lesser comrades proved adequate distractions.

The party dealth with the majority of Kobolds quickly, and soon only the heavily armored ones remained. They jabbered at eachother in a strange language no one recognized, but they seemed preoccupied with Stuu's driftglobe.

As the party was looking pretty injured, the kobolds seized the opportunty to knock the driftglobe away from Stuu. The sorcerer kobold grabbed it and bolted around the corner jabbering excitedly. The rest of the living kobolds took this cue to retreat and burrowed back down into the ground. Stuu gave chase and just as the sorcerer was about to slip into a door on the far end of the branching hallway, he slew it.

The light from the driftglobe illuminated the end of this long unexplored hallway. Craven walked forward wary of traps and sure enough, _CLICK_. Diving prone he avoided a rock on a rope the swung through the air above him.

After retreiving the driftglobe and looting the bodies, the party decided they would take their chances in the mostly-complete room for a long rest.

Barring the doors, the party hunkered down. There were no attacks as they rested, save for one rather large centipede that tunneled into the room, quickly dealt with by Thorrfig. However, outside in the hallway and indeed it felt like all around them, there were sounds of industrious kobolds building something.