---
title: The Treaty of Umbridge Hill
date: 2020-01-06
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

Our party caught up with Gundren to get his side of the story for the past three weeks. He told how he was initially beat by King Grol, then stabbed by the Drow/Shapeshifter, and eventually healed and ransomed by Captain Targor's men. He was given a letter from Targor to deliver to the party.

> The Black Spider is a coward who makes others fight for him. King Grol was a slaggard and a bully who never accomplished anything. I, Captain Targor Bloodsword, swear by my red blade that the Cragmaw Nation will be subservient to no one.
> 
> We will meet you on your terms because you are unfamiliar with us, but know that does not make us your servants. We will be armed.

They headed south towards the windmill of the summit. On the way, they found a homestead that was badly burned and trampled. Bodies were heaped into a mass grave, bodies that had been ripped apart by massive jaws. Signs of a Giant's passage were evident, as well as a group of presumably Orcs.

King Korboz of Gnomengarde replied to the party's latest inquiry.

> ### Letter
> Greetings Stuu, and the Heroes of Phandalin
> 
> I seem to have misunderstood your previous message, it provided the impression that you were on your way here to commission a magical project from one of our 3 finest workshops. Magus Nixim, Arcanus Warmorn, and Master Carwyn were delighted at the prospect of the impending bidding war for your commission.
> 
> I am afraid it's quite inefficient for us to dispatch an emissary to a town as small as Phandalin. Our data shows that _for the love of helm save us it took my wife_ demand for such services as ours is minor in such a small and out of the way location. It would be an unwise investment.
> 
> Your credit is quite unestablished with our organization. However, if you were to either send the funds to cover such a venture or establish a line of credit with us, we would gladly send an emissary. I've attached the expense report estimate.
> 
> Sincerely,
> 
> King Korboz of Gnomengarde
> 
> ### Attached Expense Report
> 
> 3 Gnomish Emmisaries
> 2 gold per day
> 28 days travel, 10 days in Phandalin
> 
> 4 Mercenaries
> 4 gold per day
> 18 days travel, 10 days on hold in Phandalin
> 
> 1 Guide
> 6 gold per day
> 18 days travel, 10 days on hold in Phandalin
> 
> 14 days travel (9 days mercenary escort)
> _where is the 4th workshop_
> 10 days in Phandalin (mercenaries on hold)
> 14 days travel (9 days mercenary escort)
> 
> Total of 38 days wages for gnomish emmisary party = 228gp
> Total of 28 days Mercenary Wages for 4 mercs = 448gp
> Total of 28 days Guide Wages = 168gp
> Food and Supplies for the journey = 60 gp
> 
> Grand total expedition cost: 904gp

The party arrived at the windmill site with a two days to spare. The day before the summit, ten hobgoblins marched out of the woods and set up camp, digging ditches and arranging their tents in an orderly manner. The group from Phandalin also arrived and the plan for the summit was hashed out.

After a lot of back and forth, the [Treaty of Umbridge Hill](https://www.gmbinder.com/share/-LwEN2LynQkDy1gHohZf) was signed into effect.

During Negotiations Captain Bloodsword repeatedly mentioned a ritual sacrifice to Maglubiyet happening in the next new moon at an ancient Druidic altar (12 miles north of the ransom drop location) by one Lhupo the Red-axe. Lhupo has gathered some 2000 gold worth of treasures he intends to sacrifice to Maglubiyet's coffers.

The party filled Sildar in on the Orc attack and the possible Giant attack they encountered. Sildar thanked the party profusely for saving Gundren and for the news. He mentioned he'll have a proposition for the party when next they are in town.

Sister Garaele mentioned that Adabra was a very skilled herbalist and she's already whipped up a cure for the remaining headaches in town. They also had begun researching the various samples Stuu left with them and will happily share their research when next the players are in town.

It is currently the 23rd of Leaffall. The next new moon is in two nights.
