---
title: A Devil's Pact Payment
date: 2020-03-24
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

**Tibalt the Shatterer** appeared in the Party's room at the Stonehill Inn when they returned from chasing the Drow. Immaculately dressed as always, the Devil stood tall in the room and looked directly at Hada. 

> You have 10 minutes, I have need of you. One of my Imps is being chased by a Demon Rabble and the imbecile is going to lead them right to a portal from Avernus to Dis. You cannot let any demons get through the portal in the minute it takes for me to close the portal behind the Imp.

Joining hands, darkness and redness closed in around our party. They appeared in a barren wasteland with a cracked landscape standing on the ground floor of what was once a tower of some sort. A massive chain draped out of a huge crack in the ground.

> That's the portal. Don't go through it. I'll get you home after it closes. The imp and accompanying horde will be coming from the North West. Don't fail. Toodleoo.

And with that **Tibalt the Shatterer** disappeared again. Hada set about setting up a makeshift rope and javelin and rope fence around the Portal hole. Finishing it off with an Immovable rod link the fence chain.

After a few minutes the party saw a faltering imp flying through the air to the northwest clutching an oblong shape wrapped in a cloth. The imp unceremoniously dropped down through the portal and Tibalt's voice came out from behind it.
60 Seconds on the clock. Don't let anything through.

What followed was a tense battle where wave after wave of Demons rushed at the portal. Thorrfig's Spirit Guardians and Spiritual Weapon held the line while Rovu flung webs and bolts and Hada swung his mighty axe, felling demons as they approached.

The minute felt like three hours and there were a few tense moments as demons got too close for comfort to getting through the hole but the party held. At the end of the minute, the party found themselves teleported away mid-battle back to their room in the Stonehill Inn.