---
title: Flight from the Circle

date: 2018-05-01
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

With Luhpo dead, the party sought cover from the storm in the cave where they found him and took a short rest. From there they circled the base of the hill as quickly and quietly as they could, seeking the treasure they were led to believe was here.

A group of goblins was greedily putting the treasure into bags and pouches, guarding their hoard from even other goblins when the party found them. The cave with the treasure also had three very injured orcs imprisoned in a cell. The party decided to tell Captain Bloodsword about the orcs, but otherwise leave them to their fate.

After fully exploring the caves, the party realized there was quite a gathering of goblins on top of the hill. They caught snatches of a speech that amounted to "We don't know who did this, but we will find them and end them for the Slaughter of Maglubiyet's Chosen!"

Deciding the best course of action was to put distance between the mob and themselves, the party struck out into the forest in the dead of night. Two hours of careful navigation in the dark later, they decided to camp in a small hollow at the base of an overhang.

During the night, in three different watches, a sound like limbs snapping, underbrush being trampled, and fallen leaves being crushed under a huge weight came from outside the camp. Growing to a crescendo alarmingly close to camp, the massive thing would suddenly stop and the sounds would die away instantly. On edge, the party finished their rest uneasily.

In the morning, a small Halfling mounted on an Armored Mastiff approached the party.

> You have about thirty seconds to tell me why I shouldn't summon the wrath of the Earthmother and end your miserable existence after what you did.

At these words, three massive animated trees closed ranks around the small camp, keeping pace with the small figure and their mount.

The party hastily worked to appear non-threatening and learned that the Druid was accusing them of summoning a demon on an ancient Druidic altar, defiling it in the process. After denying this, and explaining what really happened last night, the Druid seemed placated. They were especially interested when Thorrfig recounted how he activated the altar.

> My enclave had long thought that henge to be dormant with no way to activate. But the storm last night that you triggered proves this wrong. Excellent.

Hada showed the Druid Lhupo's Axe as proof of the Shaman's death, and the Druid's eyes went wide as he identified the axe.

> This axe is cursed. It is not of a savory nature, I do not envy you who have bound it to you with blood. I hope you can use it for better things than its predecessors used it for.

At the end of their exchange, the Druid informed the party that they would be allowed to live, but they must swear never to return to the altar. Speaking directly to Rovu they said "You must inform your superiors that the consequences will be dire if any approach the circle again."

With this, the halfling druid re-mounted his Mastiff and trotted off back into the forest. His three awakened trees retreated back into the forest as well.

The party made haste to Cragmaw Castle.

Also:
- Droop informed the party that he intends to try and help Jig un-assimilate to Maglubiyet's cult at the new site of Phagmaw, serving as a go-between for Phandalin and Cragmaw.
