---
title: Revenge of the Drow
description: Having liberated Telran's hoard from his lair, the party returned to their cart and found Hada waiting for them. Something wasn't right with him, and the party was instantly suspicious of another doppleganger dupe. Sure enough, a Drow party was waiting to strike.
date: 2020-05-18
tags:
  - session
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

Immediately after Telran's demise, Thorrfig rolled up his sleeves and set to work retreiving the dragon's inherently magical parts for Adabra the Alchemist. He successfully extracted the Eyes, Breath Gland, and Wings from the corpse. Then the party turned their attention to the treasure. About half and hour of Thorrfig's magic boot work later, the party found themselves the new owners of several shiny magic items, and about four thousand gold richer. They then looked around the eerily still cave and looked for a way out.

The party opted to use Spider Climb to scale the Dragon's entrance tunnel, and after a few hours of climbing, scraping, and a brief rest, the party was breathing the free air again. They looked around and Craven took the lead pulling the party back to the cart. Approaching, they saw a campfire lit next to their wagon. Sitting next to the fire was none other than Hada Freeblade.

> Friends! Welcome back! Come! Sit! I have returned!

Instantly suspicious. Stuu tried to use the Oblex Symbiote to talk to Hada. The response was the same as the night he disappeared, stunning silence. Yet there he was, in the flesh. The party's experience with dopplegangers rang through their heads. They promptly tried to test this potential imposter. He passed some tests, but others were found lacking. Nonetheless the party decided to long rest while keeping an eye on him.

Movement in the nearby bushes caught Stuu's ear on his first watch. At this moment he remembered that the Oblex Symbiont allowed him to detect the thoughts of others. He quickly realized that the party was in danger, an ambush was about to be sprung. Stuu drew his crossbow and annihilated Hada's sleeping body.

Craven jumped up and followed Stuu's lead. The form of Hada reverted to its more natural blue-skinned doppleganger shape as the creature died. Thorrfig and Rovu woke up to the alarm raised just as a bubble of silence encased the camp. Three drow attacked from the rim of the camp.

Our party was exhausted from their ordeal in the caves, and most of their magic was spent. The fight that followed was desperate from their side, and it ended in triumph, but everyone was exhaused. Rovu and Stuu sported new scars from deep wounds healed by magic.

Examining the bodies, the party found several potentially identifying pieces of evidence but they were all written in the same cryptic tongue that the Black Spider used.
